---
title: Meta-Review Process
showTitle: true
---

SIGCSE strives for the best reviewing process that we can achieve. In
order to assist the Program Chairs in dealing with the high volume of
submissions that we receive, SIGCSE uses a meta-review process to help
summarize the various reviews. The following description indicates how
meta-reviews play into the various stages of the reviewing process.

## Stage 1: Reviewers

At least four reviewers review each paper. Reviewers are drawn from the
SIGCSE reviewer pool with preference for those whose expertise match the
paper's topic areas.

A review must objectively, accurately, and clearly assess a paper's
suitability for publication at SIGCSE, founded in the reviewer's
disciplinary expertise and on the basis of the written paper's
originality, technical soundness, contribution to computer science
education, and clarity of presentation.

Reviews that do not meet this standard may be deleted. For example, an
unacceptable review might:

-   be incoherent, unreadable, or irrelevant to the paper;

-   focus on the paper's topic area or presumed authors at the expense
    of assessment of the paper itself; or
    
-   provide no justification for its numeric ratings. (Even in "obvious"
    cases, reviewers should briefly justify ratings.)

Reviewers whose reviews are consistently unacceptable may be permanently
disbarred from SIGCSE reviewing.

Note: A difference in rating or opinion with other reviewers or with
Program Committee members will never be cause for deletion of a review.

## Stage 2: Associate Program Chairs (The Meta-Reviewers)

After reviews have been submitted, one of the Associate Program Chairs
synthesizes each paper's reviews into a "meta-review" to improve
accuracy, quality, and effectiveness of the selection process.

Associate Program Chairs are selected by the Program Chairs for their
disciplinary expertise. Associate Program Chairs read the papers'
reviews and abstracts though not, in most cases, the paper itself.

After an APC has read the reviews for a particular paper, that APC has
the following responsibilities:

1.  In the rare case that a review clearly violated SIGCSE's review
    standards (as described above), the APC may recommend to the Program
    Chairs that the review be deleted.
    
2.  The APC summarizes the case for and against a paper depending on its
    reviews, abstract, and occasionally the paper itself. In cases where
    the reviews are clearly in agreement, only the case made by the
    reviewers (for or against) is summarized. In rare cases (e.g., when
    the reviews are deemed irreconcilably disparate or when too few
    reviewers claim familiarity with the area), the APC may read the
    paper fully and provide a "normal" review, in addition to the
    meta-review.
    
3.  APCs are charged with making strong recommendations and therefore
    are encouraged to use the high (3) and low (1) ratings in most cases
    (as opposed to regular reviewers). APC reviews are NOT reviews of
    the paper, nor are their ratings intended to be averages; instead,
    they are reviews of the reviews to help the Program Chairs make
    decisions on the final program.

## Stage 3: Program Chairs

The Program Chairs' duty, quoted from [SIGCSE's Program Chair
Responsibility Policy](http://sigcse.org/about/policies/pcr), is "to
create a good, well balanced program at the SIGCSE Technical Symposium
and the ITiCSE conference. The program should provide both short and
long term benefits to the conference attendees and the wider community."

Within the framework described here, that means ensuring overall quality
in the reviewing process and assembling an excellent program that
reflects reviewers' and Associate Program Chairs' decisions with respect
to the overall composition, exigencies, and special focus of the
conference.

Program Chairs make all final decisions on accepting or rejecting papers
on the basis of the papers, their reviews, their meta-reviews, and a
global effort to compose an excellent program that is balanced and
diverse across a variety of topic areas.

Program Chairs read every meta-review of every submitted paper. In many
cases, Program Chairs will also consult abstracts, reviews, or the
papers themselves.

Finally, the Program Chairs will report to the community --- in the
proceedings or at the business meeting --- on the aggregate outcome of
the reviewing process and its potential for revision or extension in
coming years.

## Stage 4: Authors

After reviewing is complete, authors see the reviews for their proposal.
Authors also receive meta-reviews that synthesize the existing reviews,
clarifying how the program committee interprets the disparate
information from individual reviews.

{% include submission-questions category="Program Co-Chair" %}
