---
title: "Guidelines: BOFs"
---
{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Birds of a Feather" %}

Birds-of-a-Feather (BOF) Sessions provide an environment for colleagues with similar interests to meet for informal discussion. Proposers of BOF sessions should serve as discussion leaders only. BOFs are not intended to be presentations.  BOF sessions will be 50 minutes each.

Proposals undergo review but not blind review.

## How Should The Proposal Be Formatted?

BOF proposals are to be provided in PDF format. The full proposal contains an abstract and a body that describes your BOF (as detailed below). The abstract needs to appear in two places: in the PDF proposal and in a text box on the submission page (see below). Proposals are limited to {{site.data.cfp.details.["Birds of a Feather"].limits}} (including an abstract of {{site.data.cfp.details.["Birds of a Feather"].abstract}}).

The full proposal is used for the review process only. If the proposal is accepted, the abstract is the description that appears on the Symposium website and in the Symposium program and proceedings. The format for the proposal is as follows.

### BOF Proposal Format and Contents (limited to {{site.data.cfp.details["Birds of a Feather"].limits}})

* **Proposer**: Include name, affiliation, address, phone and fax numbers, email address, and Website address (if applicable). This item does not count in the page limit. Proposals do NOT undergo blind review, so this information should be included. You should expect most correspondence related to the conference to arrive via email. Please check your spam filter if you haven't received an expected notification because the auto-responses generated by the conference software are sometimes blocked.

* **Title**: A title for the BOF.

* **Abstract**: A description of the BOF. The same abstract will also need to be submitted via a text box on the submission page. Please be sure that your description is accurate and that both submitted copies (here in the BOF Proposal, and in the submission text box) are exactly the same.
Significance and Relevance of the Topic: Please include information about any trends in relation to the topic and possibly describe (or cite) evidence to that effect. Your objective here is to explain why the topic is significant. You should also justify how your BOF will engage participants in group discussion and enhance future connections between attendees. This information can help your proposal to be selected if resources become an issue.

* **Expected Audience**: Briefly describe the nature and size of the expected audience. If you expect a particularly large or small audience, please explain why. This information can help in room assignment.

* **Discussion Leader(s)**: Although correspondence will be with the proposer above, it will be the discussion leader(s) who will be mentioned in Symposium literature. Please list any additional such names (besides the proposer) and affiliations here. Be certain that you have their commitments to attend the Symposium. All discussion leaders must register for the SIGCSE conference and be present for the BOF session.

* **Expertise of Discussion Leader(s)**: Give a summary of the qualifications of the discussion leader(s) as it relates to the BOF topic being proposed.

* **Special Requirements, if any**: Because of the informal and spontaneous nature of these sessions, A/V equipment is typically not provided. That said, please describe any pressing needs you feel you will have. Although we cannot guarantee that your requested equipment will be available, we will make every effort to let you know this well before the conference.

### BOF Abstract (limited to {{site.data.cfp.details["Birds of a Feather"].abstract}})

The abstract is the description of the BOF that will appear on the conference web pages. The description is limited to and must match verbatim the abstract section of the BOF Proposal. The BOF abstract must be submitted in plain text. The abstract for an accepted proposal may contain a URL with more information. (Abstracts of accepted BOFs can be edited in response to reviews.)

Here is a sample BOF Proposal (right-click to download):

* BOF Proposal Example (PDF)
* BOF Proposal Example (Word)

## How Do I Submit My Proposal?

Write your proposal using the format specified above.

Convert your paper into Adobe PDF format. Refer to our [Creating Adobe PDF Documents page](creating_pdf.html) page for assistance.

A PDF version of your submission should be uploaded using the online submission system. Submit the PDF version of your proposal using the BOF template. Recall that you will also need to cut-and-paste or type your text abstract description into a text box during the submission process. Please do not wait until the last minute to submit your documents because that is when everyone else will be connecting to our server!

Make note of the proposal ID number and password assigned to your submission. You will receive an e-mail message confirmation. Spam filters sometimes trap these automatically generated messages so you may need to check your spam trap for the confirmation and later, acceptance or rejection notification.

After receiving confirmation, go to the submission site to review your submission for accuracy. Send e-mail to the BOFs chair(s) (see below) if there are any problems.

{% include presenter-warning.html %}

{% include submission-questions category="Birds-Of-a-Feather (BOFs) Wrangler" %}
