---
title: Birds of a Feather ("BOF") Submission Guidelines
---

{% comment %}
  ------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  Submission Deadline:                              \<? echo \$bofAndPosterDeadline; ?\>
  @11:59 p.m. Hawaii-Aleutian Standard Time (HST)
  Acceptance Notification:                          \<? echo \$bofAndPosterNotificationDeadline; ?\>
  Updates to BOF Title, Proposer & Abstract:        \<? echo \$bofAndPosterUpdatesDeadline; ?\>
  ------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------
{% endcomment %}

{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Birds of a Feather" %}

{% section What Is A Birds Of A Feather? %}

Birds-of-a-Feather (BOF) Sessions provide an environment for colleagues
with similar interests to meet for informal discussion. Proposers of BOF
sessions should serve as discussion leaders only. BOFs are not intended
to be presentations.

{% section How Should The Proposal Be Formatted? %}

BOF proposals are to be provided in PDF format. The full proposal
contains an up to BOF abstract. The abstract needs to appear in two
places: in the PDF proposal and in a text box on the submission page
(see below). The format for the BOF proposal is as follows.

1.  **BOF Proposal Format and Contents (limited to 1 page)**

    1.  **Proposer**: Include name, affiliation, address, phone and fax
        numbers, email address, and Website address (if applicable).
        This item does not count in the page limit. Birds of a Feather
        proposals do not undergo blind review, so this information
        should be included. You should expect most correspondence
        related to the conference to arrive via email. Please check your
        SPAM filter if you haven't received an expected notification
        because the auto-responses generated by the conference software
        are sometimes blocked.
        
    2.  **Title**: A title for the BOF.
    
    3.  **Abstract**: description of the BOF. The same abstract will
        also need to be submitted via a text box on the submission page.
        Please be sure that your description is accurate and that both
        submitted copies (here in the BOF Proposal, and in the
        submission text box) are exactly the same.
        
    4.  **Significance and Relevance of the Topic**: Please include
        information about any trends in relation to the topic and
        possibly describe (or cite) evidence to that effect. Your
        objective here is to explain why the topic is significant. You
        should also justify how your BOF will engage participants in
        group discussion and enhance future connections between
        attendees. This information can help your proposal to be
        selected if resources become an issue.
        
    5.  **Expected Audience**: Briefly describe the nature and size of
        the expected audience. If you expect a particularly large or
        small audience, please explain why. This information can help in
        room assignment.
        
    6.  **Discussion Leader(s)**: Although correspondence will be with
        the proposer above, it will be the discussion leader(s) who will
        be mentioned in Symposium literature. Please list any additional
        such names (besides the proposer) and affiliations here. Be
        certain that you have their commitments to attend the Symposium.
        All discussion leaders must register for the SIGCSE conference
        and be present for the BOF session.
        
    7.  **Expertise of Discussion Leader(s)**: Give a summary of the
        qualifications of the discussion leader(s) as it relates to the
        BOF topic being proposed.
        
    8.  **Special Requirements, if any**: Because of the informal and
        spontaneous nature of these sessions, A/V equipment is typically
        not provided. That said, please describe any pressing needs you
        feel you will have. Although we cannot guarantee that your
        requested equipment will be available, we will make every effort
        to let you know this well before the conference.

2.  **BOF Abstract (limited to )**

    The abstract is the description of the BOF that will appear on the
    conference web pages. The description is limited to and must match
    verbatim the abstract section of the BOF Proposal. The BOF abstract
    must be submitted in plain text. The abstract for an accepted
    proposal may contain a URL with more information. (Abstracts of
    accepted BOFs can be edited in response to reviews.)

Here is a sample BOF Proposal: FIXME

-   [BOF Proposal Example
    (PDF)](<?php%20echo%20$prefix%20?>/downloads/BOFSample.pdf)

{% section How Do I Submit My Proposal? %}

1.  Write your proposal using the format specified above.

2.  Convert your proposal into Adobe PDF format. Refer to our [Creating
    Adobe PDF Documents](creating_pdf.html) page for assistance.
    
3.  Submit the PDF version of your proposal using the . Recall that you
    will also need to cut-and-paste or type your text abstract
    description into a text box during the submission process. Please do
    not wait until the last minute to submit your documents because that
    is when everyone else will be connecting to our server!
    
4.  Make note of the BOF ID number and password assigned to your
    submission. You will receive an e-mail message confirmation. Spam
    filters sometimes trap these automatically generated messages so you
    may need to check your spam trap for the confirmation and later,
    acceptance or rejection notification.
    
5.  After receiving confirmation, go to the to review your submission
    for accuracy.

{% include presenter-warning.html %}



{% include submission-questions category="Birds-Of-a-Feather (BOFs) Wrangler" %}