---
title: "Guidelines: Lightning Talks"
---

{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Lightning Talks" %}

Lightning talks describe works in progress, new and untested ideas, or
opportunities for collaborative work. The purpose of a lightning talk
can be to start a discussion, find collaborators, or receive input and
critique about an idea. Lightning talk presentations will be 5 minutes
each.

Proposals undergo review but not blind review.

## How Should The Proposal Be Formatted?

Lightning Talk proposals are to be provided in PDF format. The full proposal contains an abstract and a body that describes your Lightning Talk (as detailed below). The abstract needs to appear in two places: in the PDF proposal and in a text box on the submission page (see below). Proposals are limited to {{site.data.cfp.details.["Lightning Talks"].limits}} (including an abstract of {{site.data.cfp.details.["Lightning Talks"].abstract}}).

The full proposal is used for the review process only. If the proposal
is accepted, the abstract is the description that appears on the
Symposium website and in the Symposium program and proceedings. The
format for the proposal is as follows.

## Lightning Talk Proposal Format and Contents (limited to {{site.data.cfp.details.["Lightning Talks"].limits}})

-   **Proposer**: Include name, affiliation, address, phone and fax numbers,
    email address, and Website address (if applicable). This item does
    not count in the page limit. Proposals do NOT undergo blind review,
    so this information should be included. You should expect most
    correspondence related to the conference to arrive via email. Please
    check your spam filter if you haven’t received an expected
    notification because the auto-responses generated by the conference
    software are sometimes blocked.

-   **Title**: A title for the Lightning Talk.

-   **Abstract**: A description of the Lightning Talk. The same abstract
    will also need to be submitted via a text box on the submission
    page. Please be sure that your description is accurate and that both
    submitted copies (here in the Lightning Talk Proposal, and in the
    submission text box) are exactly the same.

-   **Description**: Describe your talk in more detail. It will be helpful
    to reviewers to know why you are excited about the topic, and why
    you think others will be interested too. Lightning talks are
    expected to explore tentative or preliminary work, or even ideas for
    possible work. Presentations of mature work will not be considered.

## Lightning Talk Abstract (limited to {{site.data.cfp.details.["Lightning Talks"].abstract}})

The abstract is the description of the Lightning talk that will appear
on the conference web pages. The description is limited to and must
match verbatim the abstract section of the Lightning talk Proposal. The
Lightning talk abstract must be submitted in plain text. The abstract
for an accepted proposal may contain a URL with more information.
(Abstracts of accepted Lightning talks can be edited in response to
reviews.)

Here is a sample Lightning talk Proposal (right-click to download):

-   Lightning talk Proposal Example (PDF)

-   Lightning talk Proposal Example (Word)

## How Do I Submit My Proposal?

Write your proposal using the format specified above.

Convert your paper into Adobe PDF format. Refer to our [Creating Adobe PDF Documents page](creating_pdf.html) page for assistance.


A PDF version of your submission should be uploaded using the online
submission system. Submit the PDF version of your proposal using the
Lightning Talk template. Recall that you will also need to cut-and-paste
or type your text abstract description into a text box during the
submission process. Please do not wait until the last minute to submit
your documents because that is when everyone else will be connecting to
our server!

Make note of the proposal ID number and password assigned to your
submission. You will receive an e-mail message confirmation. Spam
filters sometimes trap these automatically generated messages so you may
need to check your spam trap for the confirmation and later, acceptance
or rejection notification.

After receiving confirmation, go to the submission site to review your
submission for accuracy. Send e-mail to the Lightning Talks chair(s)
(see below) if there are any problems.

{% include presenter-warning.html %}

{% include submission-questions category="Lightning Talks Wrangler" %}
