---
title: "Guidelines: Panels"
---

{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Panels" %}

Panel sessions provide an opportunity for expert panel members to
present their views on a specific topic and then to discuss these views
among themselves and with the audience. Panel sessions run for
{{site.data.cfp.details[plural].length}}. Usually a panel session starts
with a brief introduction of the panel topic and the participants,
followed by short presentations by the panelists giving their views.
They are 75 minutes in length and are scheduled in standard conference
spaces. The session must allow sufficient opportunity (about 30 minutes)
for an interactive question and answer period involving both the
panelists and the audience.

A typical panel will consist of four participants, including the
moderator. Limiting a panel to 4 participants allows sufficient time for
audience questions. Proposals with more than four panelists must
convincingly show that all panelists will be able to speak, and the
audience able to respond, within the session time.

Panel proposal review is NOT blind. Criteria used in reviewing the
proposals include the likely level of interest of the topic, the
presence of panel members with multiple perspectives on the topic, and
the likelihood that the panel will leave sufficient time for audience
participation.

If the proposal is accepted, all presenters listed in the panel
description will be required to register for the conference and to
participate in the session.

## How Should The Proposal Be Formatted?

The proposal is limited to {{site.data.cfp.details[plural].limits}} that
conform to the must adhere to the [ACM publication guidelines]({{site.data.main.acmpubguidelines}}) with
the following modifications and exceptions:

-   When providing author information, indicate which of the panelists
    is the moderator by placing the word "Moderator" in parentheses
    after her/his name.

-   Do not include an abstract. Instead, the first section should be
    titled Summary and should provide a summary of the panel written by
    the moderator.

-   Subsequent sections should contain the position statements of each
    panelist. Title each section by identifying the author.

-   References where appropriate are encouraged, but not required. If
    they are included, they should be placed in a separate section
    titled References and should follow the formatting guidelines.

If accepted, the panel description will be allocated
{{site.data.cfp.details[plural].limits}} in the conference proceedings
and must adhere to the formatting guidelines specified above. To
facilitate the transition from proposal to camera-ready copy, it is
critical that authors adhere closely to the formatting specifications
and page limits.

## How Do I Submit My Proposal?

Write your proposal using the format specified above. Within the
proposal, you must provide Category and Subject Descriptors, General
Terms, and Keywords, just as paper authors must do. These requirements
are described in more detail in the [ACM publication guidelines]({{site.data.main.acmpubguidelines}}).

Convert your paper into Adobe PDF format. Refer to our [Creating Adobe PDF Documents page](creating_pdf.html) page for assistance.

A PDF version of your submission should be uploaded using the online
submission system. Submit the PDF version of your proposal using the
Panels template. Please do not wait until the last minute to submit your
documents because that is when everyone else will be connecting to our
server!

Make note of the proposal ID number and password assigned to your
submission. You will receive an e-mail message confirmation. Spam
filters sometimes trap these automatically generated messages so you may
need to check your spam trap for the confirmation and later, acceptance
or rejection notification.

After receiving confirmation, go to the to review your submission for
accuracy. Send e-mail to the Panels chair(s) (see below) if there are
any problems.

{% include presenter-warning.html %}

{% include submission-questions category="Panels Wrangler" %}
