---
title: Demo Submission Guidelines
---

{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Demos" %}

# What Is a Demo?

Demos provide a way to showcase an educational tool or project in a live 
setting. Not designed to be sales pitches, demonstrations are a way for 
the community to see the relevance, potential and innovation of the tool 
and allow time for discussion with its creator. Proposals will be 
anonymously reviewed for acceptance, much like papers, and must specify 
any power, A/V equipment, space, or other needs. Demos will will occur 
during break periods at a designated space in the exhibition hall.

Demo Proposals undergo review but not blind review. Proposals are 
evaluated for relevance, anticipated interest, quality, and maturity of 
the tool being demoed.

# How Should The Proposal Be Formatted?

Demo proposals consist of two documents: the full Demo proposal and a 
Demo abstract. The full proposal is used for the review process only. 
The abstract is the description that appears on the Symposium web site 
and in the Symposium program and proceedings. The format of these 
documents should be as follows.

## Full Demo Proposal Format ({{site.data.cfp.details.Demos.limits}})

The proposal must meet all of the criteria listed below, and must fit on 
no more than {{site.data.cfp.details.Demos.limits}} total written in Times Roman, 12 pt. font. The 
page format is for 8 1/2 x 11 paper, 1 column, single spaced, and 1 inch 
margins (top, bottom, left, right). Include all of the following 
information, in the order given below:

1. **Demo Title**

1. **Presenters**

1. **Contact Person**: (name; department; college, university, or other affiliation; address; telephone number; fax number; e-mail address)

1. **Other presenters**: one entry for each other presenter (name; department; college, university, or other affiliation; e-mail address)

1. **Abstract (Description of the Demo)**: Describe your Demo in at most {{site.data.cfp.details.Demos.abstract}}. This must match verbatim the abstract described below.

1. **Intended Audience**: For whom is this Demo intended?

1. **Presenter(s) Background/Biography**: Provide a brief biography addressing the presenter(s) qualifications for demoing the tool.

1. **Materials Provided**: Describe any handouts, software or other materials that will be provided to attendees.

1. **Rough Agenda for the Demo**: Timing details would be helpful here. Explain what the attendees can expect.  Be sure to budget a realistic amount of time for questions from attendees.

1. **Audio/Visual and Computer Requirements**: Indicate your A/V requirements, such as wireless access, wired access, extra power outlets, data projector, etc. Please note that certain A/V materials and equipment will be available for all demos.  At the time of acceptance, more information about the standard vs. non-standard A/V equipment will be available.

1. **Other Critical Information**: Other notes that will help to evaluate your proposal according to the evaluation criteria described above.

# Demo Proposal Abstract ({{site.data.cfp.details.Demos.abstract}})

The abstract is the description of the Demo that will appear in SIGCSE 
publications and is what participants will read on the Symposium web 
site to decide which Demos to attend.

The Demo proposal abstract must be submitted in plain text, and must 
match the abstract in the full proposal. The abstract for an accepted 
proposal may contain a URL with more information about the tool being 
demoed. (Abstracts of accepted Demos can be edited in response to 
reviews for the camera-ready submission.)

# How Do I Submit My Proposal?

Note that you will be required to submit your proposal electronically.

Write your proposal and abstract documents using the formats specified 
above.

Convert the proposal document into Adobe PDF format. Refer to our 
Creating Adobe PDF Documents page for assistance.

A PDF version of your submission should be uploaded using the <a href="{{site.data.cfp.submissionurl}}">online submission system</a>. Note that the text version of the abstract will be published in the various forms of the program and proceedings, and may be formatted and/or edited to meet their requirements. The proposal, formatted in .pdf, is for reviewers only. Please do not wait until the last minute to submit your documents because that is when everyone else  will be connecting to our server!


{% include presenter-warning.html %}

{% include submission-questions category="Demos Wrangler" %}


