---
title: Publication Guidelines for Camera-ready Materials
---

{% callout danger %}
The requirements listed in this section apply to all papers, panels, and
special sessions.
{% endcallout %}

**Title:** The title should be centered, Arial or Helvetica, bold, 18
point, and Initial Letters Capitalized Like This.

**Author information:** The author's name(s) should be centered using
Arial or Helvetica 12 point. The affiliation and address should be Arial
or Helvetica 10 point, and email should be Arial or Helvetica 12 point.
Two or more authors may be listed side by side. If co-authors are at the
same institution and share most information, you may use only one
address. Please see the templates for examples.

{% callout info %}
<b>SPECIAL NOTE FOR PANEL SUBMISSIONS</b>: Indicate which of the
    panelists is the moderator by placing the word "Moderator" in
    parentheses after her/his name.
{% endcallout %}

**Paper size:** You should format your submission for 8.5 x11-inch
paper.

**Margins:** Top and bottom margins should be 1 inch, left and right
margins should be 0.75 inch. This is for every page including the first.

**Columns:** Text should be presented in two columns each 3.33 inches
wide. There should be a 0.33 inch space between the columns. The two
columns on the last page should be the same length approximately.

**Section heads:** Section heads are flush left, Times Roman, bold, 12
point, ALL CAPITALS, and numbered starting at 1. There should be an
additional 6 points of white space above the section head.

**Subsection heads:** If your paper has subsections, they are flush
left, Times Roman, bold, 12 point, and subnumbered (for example, 1.1).
Initial letters of the subsection heading should be capitalized. There
should be an additional 6 points of white space above the subsection
head unless it immediately follows a section head. (Please see the
templates for examples.)

**Subsubsections:** If your paper has subsubsections, they are flush
left, Times Roman, italics, 11 point, with initial letters capitalized,
and subnumbered (for example, 1.1.2 or 1.2.3.4). There should be an
additional 6 points of white space above the subsubsection heading,
unless it immediately follows a subsection heading.

**Text:** All text including abstract should be single spaced, full
justification, Times Roman, and 9 point.

**References:** Use the standard Communications of the ACM format for
references. That is, references should be a numbered list at the end of
the article, ordered alphabetically by first author, and referenced by
numbers in square brackets, like this [1]. Use commas for multiple
citations like this [3,4]. The reference section has a regular section
head (i.e., numbered, ALL CAPITALS, Times Roman, bold, 12 point), and
the references are 9 point Times Roman but with ragged right
justification.

**Copyright Space:** Leave 1.5 inches of blank space at the bottom of
the left column of the first page for the copyright notice. Use a
placeholder copyright notice with the number X-XXXXX-XX-X/XX/X for your
submission. Please see the templates for examples.

**Required Sections:** The following unnumbered sections are required at
the beginning of the document in the following order:

**Abstract:** The abstract should be a short description of the work
described in the document. The title of the section ("ABSTRACT") should
be formatted as a section head (i.e., flush left, Times Roman, bold, 12
point, ALL CAPITALS).

**Categories and Subject Descriptors:** The ACM Computing Classification
Scheme is available at
[acm.org/class/1998/](http://www.acm.org/class/1998/) Most submissions
are likely to use category K.3.2 Computer and Information Science
Education. The title of this section ("Categories and Subject
Descriptors") should be formatted as a subsection head (i.e., flush
left, Times Roman, bold, 12 point, Initial Letters Capitalized).

**General Terms:** This section is limited to the following 16 terms
(which are defined by the ACM Computing Classification Scheme):
Algorithms, Management, Measurement, Documentation, Performance, Design,
Economics, Reliability, Experimentation, Security, Human Factors,
Standardization, Languages, Theory, Legal Aspects, Verification. The
title of this section ("General Terms") should be formatted as a
subsection head.

**Keywords:** This section is your choice of words you would like your
publication to be indexed by. The title of this section ("Keywords")
should be formatted as a subsection head.

**Other Requirements:** Do NOT use page numbers or headers/footers. 

## ACM Web Reference Guidelines

Elements (in most cases):

1.  Author(s)
2.  Year of publication
3.  Title of 'document' - use initial caps on keywords and end in
    period.
4.  Name of Site in italics if given, and followed by period.
5.  Date accessed - Use 'Retrieved' followed by date as Month, DD, YYYY
    followed by 'from'
6.  Address - Given as '{http|ftp|telnet}://path'.

Note: a web address should never be given for a formally published
document whose citation is complete or for which there is a DOI. Only
give a web address for informal works or online-only works or resources
that cannot otherwise be found by citation and/or DOI. Author Home page
URLs or Institutional Repository URLs are not the way to cite formally
published literature. If citing a formally published online-only
publication, use the format for that genre and add elements 5 and 6
above.

**Examples:**

H. Thornburg. 2001.  Introduction to Bayesian Statistics. Retrieved March 2, 2005 from http://ccrma.stanford.edu/~jos/bayes/bayes.html

Rafal Ablamowicz and Bertfried Fauser. 2007. CLIFFORD: a Maple 11 Package for Clifford Algebra Computations, version 11. Retrieved February 28, 2008 from http://math.tntech.edu/rafal/cliff11/index.html

Poker-Edge.Com. 2006. Stats and Analysis. Retrieved June 7, 2006 from http://www.poker-edge.com/stats.php

## Page Limits

All submissions must adhere to the limits for their specific submission type.

{% include submissionpagelimits.html %}


## Copyright/Permission Forms

All authors of accepted papers will need to submit a signed copyright
form with their FINAL document.

All authors of accepted panels or special sessions will need to submit a
signed permission form with the FINAL document.

Information on these forms will be sent to authors after notification of
acceptance by the program committee.

Authors should take the time to familiarize themselves with the ACM's policies regarding author rights, and [what options exist if they wish to openly license their submitted content](http://authors.acm.org/main.html). 


## Templates and Samples

Templates for submissions can be found at the [ACM SIG Proceedings
website](http://www.acm.org/sigs/publications/proceedings-templates).
LaTeX users should use option \#2 (tighter alternate style) when
formatting your document.

{% include submission-questions category="Program Co-Chair" %}

