---
title: Special Session Submission Guidelines 
---

{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Special Sessions" %}


## What Is A Special Session?

Special sessions are your opportunity to customize and experiment with
the SIGCSE conference format. Special sessions should **NOT** replicate
existing SIGCSE session formats (i.e., panels, paper presentations, and
poster sessions). They are 75 minutes in length and are scheduled in
standard conference spaces. Within these constraints, the form is yours
to design.

For example, a special session might be a tutorial or seminar, a
committee report, a curricular or accreditation forum, a rapid-fire
sequence of five-minute talks, or a hands-on demo of dance moves proven
to improve retention of CS material.

Possible topic areas include management of large classes, projects and
assignments, teaching computer science in K-12, experiments on
collaborative learning, report of an ACM committee addressing issues at
two-year colleges, or special issues arising when teaching computing
outside of North America.

Special session proposal review is not blind. Criteria used in reviewing
the proposals will include the likely level of interest in the session
and the suitability and feasibility of the proposed format to its topic.
If the proposal is accepted, all presenters listed in the special
session description will be required to register for the conference and
to participate in the session.

## How Should The Proposal Be Formatted?

The proposal is limited to {{site.data.cfp.details[plural].limits}} that conform to the [SIGCSE {{site.data.main.year}} Format Instructions](format.html) with the
following modifications and exceptions:

-   Do not include an abstract. Instead, the first section should be
    titled **Summary** and should provide a summary of the session.
    
-   Subsequent sections should contain the following information:

    -   **Overall objective of the session:** Describe the topic of the
        special session and explain how the session will be organized
        (e.g., as a committee report, tutorial, hands-on exercise, ...).
        Indicate why the proposed session is important.
        
    -   **Outline of the session:** Organize this section by subtopics,
        activities, or a similar scheme. If more than one participant is
        involved, label each section of the outline with the name of the
        participant who will be presenting that section. Note that in
        the case of a committee report, the presenters might be a subset
        of the authors.
        
        We suggest that you allow at least 40 - 50% of the time for
        questions and answers or other interaction with the attendees.
        All sessions are {{site.data.cfp.details[plural].length}} in length.
        
    -   **Expectations:** State the intended audience. Indicate how much
        the session will cover and what the audience should learn. This
        is particularly important if your proposed special session is a
        tutorial. If feedback from the audience is desired, indicate how
        it will be elicited.
        
    -   **Suitability for a special session:** Include a brief
        description that justifies the inclusion of this presentation as
        a special session. Explain why the proposed presentation is
        better suited for a special session than a paper or panel.

-   References where appropriate are encouraged, but not required. If
    they are included, they should be placed in a separate section
    titled **References** and should follow the formatting guidelines.

If accepted, the special session description will be allocated {{site.data.cfp.details[plural].limits}} in the conference proceedings and must adhere to the formatting guidelines specified above. To facilitate the transition from proposal to camera-ready copy, it is critical that authors adhere closely to the formatting specifications and page limits.

## How Do I Submit My Proposal?

Note that you will be required to submit your proposal electronically.

1.  Write your proposal using the format specified above. Within the
    proposal, you must provide Category and Subject Descriptors, General
    Terms, and Keywords, just as paper authors must do. These
    requirements are described in more detail in the [SIGCSE {{site.data.main.year}} Format
    Instructions](format.html).
    
2.  Convert your proposal into Adobe PDF format. Refer to our [Creating
    Adobe PDF Documents](creating_pdf.html) page for assistance.
    
3.  A PDF version of your submission should be uploaded using the <a href="{{site.data.cfp.submissionurl}}">online submission system</a>. Note that there
    are several ways you must categorize your proposal submission in the
    online system. These categories are used to select the reviewers who
    will evaluate your proposal. Please select no more than 3 categories
    to ensure the best possible match with a reviewer of similar
    interests and expertise.
    
4.  Please do not wait until the last minute to submit your documents
    because that is when everyone else will be connecting to our server!
5.  Make note of the proposal ID number and password assigned to your
    submission. **You will need them later.** You will receive an e-mail
    message confirmation. Spam filters sometimes trap these
    automatically generated messages so you may need to check your spam
    trap for the confirmation and later, acceptance or rejection
    notification.
    
6.  After receiving confirmation, go to the to review your submission
    for accuracy. Send e-mail to if there are any problems.

## Presentation Notes

-   All presenters must register for the conference.

-   Panel sessions are {{site.data.cfp.details[plural].length}} in length. The session must allow
    sufficient opportunity (about 30 minutes) for an interactive
    question and answer period involving both the panelists and the
    audience.
    
-   Plan to attend the speakers' breakfast on the morning of your
    presentation. This will serve as a convenient time for any final
    coordination of the presenters.
    
-   The conference supplies a projector but not a laptop. You will need
    to bring a laptop or arrange to use one from another attendee.
-   Bring a backup copy of your presentation on a USB stick. This will
    make it possible for all presenters on a panel to make their
    presentations from a single laptop. We especially encourage you to
    consolidate your individual contributions into a single
    presentation. This will result in smoother transitions from one
    speaker to another.
    
-   Wireless Internet access should be available during your
    presentation, but you should, of course, be aware that there is
    always potential for failure.
    
-   Arrive at your room at least 10 minutes before the panel session is
    scheduled to begin.

{% include presenter-warning.html %}


{% include submission-questions category="Special Sessions Wrangler" %}
