---
title: Workshop Submission Guidelines
---


{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Workshops" %}


## What Is a Workshop?

Workshops provide an in-depth review of, or introduction to, a topic of
interest, and should provide participants with materials and/or ideas
that are immediately useful in the classroom. To this end, workshop
presenters should provide participants with handouts outlining the
workshop material. All SIGCSE {{site.data.main.year}} workshops will be half-day workshops (3 hours).

Workshop Proposals undergo review but **not** blind review. Proposals
are evaluated for **relevance, anticipated interest, quality, and
availability of appropriate facilities**. You may want to review the
list of SIGCSE 2011 workshops
([1-12](http://db.grinnell.edu/sigcse/sigcse2011/Program/viewAcceptedDayTime.asp?timeID=119002200),
[13-25](http://db.grinnell.edu/sigcse/sigcse2011/Program/viewAcceptedDayTime.asp?timeID=319002200),
and
[26-35](http://db.grinnell.edu/sigcse/sigcse2011/Program/viewAcceptedDayTime.asp?timeID=415001800))
prior to submitting a proposal.

SIGCSE will reimburse presenters for handouts (up to \$5 per
participant) and will provide one night free lodging per workshop (not
per presenter) at the conference hotel.


## Hands-On Lab-Based Workshops

**All** hands-on workshops at SIGCSE {{site.data.main.year}} will
use participants' laptop computers at the conference site. The Symposium
Committee will help presenters distribute workshop software to
participants prior to the Symposium, e.g., by providing attendee e-mail
addresses for software distribution. Distribution of software is the
responsibility of the workshop leaders. We recommend that the organizers
of each hands-on workshop create their own web page (on their own
server) with all necessary software and instructions for installation.
To accommodate late registrations, we will collect these URLs and make
them available to late registrants when they register on-site. We will
also provide presenters with mailing lists containing the emails of
current enrollees soon after the close of the early registration window.

Proposers of hands-on workshops should indicate which of the following
formats they wish for their workshop:

-   **Laptop Required**. Participants should bring a laptop computer to
    participate in this workshop.
    
-   **Laptop Recommended**. It is recommended, but not required, that
    participants bring a laptop computer to this workshop.
    
-   **Laptop Optional**. It is not necessary for participants to bring
    laptops to this workshop.


## How Should The Proposal Be Formatted?

Workshop proposals consist of **two** documents: the full workshop
proposal and a workshop abstract. The full proposal is used for the
review process only. The abstract is the description that appears on the
Symposium web site and in the Symposium program and proceedings. The
format of these documents should be as follows.

1.  **Full Workshop Proposal Format ({{site.data.cfp.details["Workshops"].limits}})**

    The first page is a title page that must contain only the workshop
    title and presenters. The remaining
    information must fit on no more than two
    pages total written in Times Roman, 12 pt. font. The page format is
    for 8 1/2 x 11 paper, 1 column, single spaced, and 1 inch margins
    (top, bottom, left, right). Include all of the following
    information, in the order given below:

    -   **Workshop Title**
    
    -   **Presenters**
    
        1.  **Contact Person**: (name; department; college, university,
            or other affiliation; address; telephone number; fax number;
            e-mail address)
            
        2.  **Other presenters**: one entry for each other presenter
            (name; department; college, university, or other
            affiliation; e-mail address)

    -   **Abstract (Description of the Workshop)**: Describe your
        workshop in at most {{site.data.cfp.details["Workshops"].abstract}}. 
        This should match verbatim the abstract described below.
        
    -   **Intended Audience**: For whom is this workshop intended?
    
    -   **Presenter(s) Background/Biography**: Provide a brief biography
        addressing the presenter(s) qualifications for leading the
        proposed workshop.
        
    -   **Materials Provided**: Describe any handouts, software or other
        materials that will be provided to attendees.
        
    -   **Rough Agenda for the Workshop**: Timing details would be
        helpful here. Please keep in mind the time limit of 3 hours 
        for your workshop, including a 15 minute break.
        
    -   **Audio/Visual and Computer Requirements**: Indicate your A/V
        requirements, such as wireless access, wired access, extra power
        outlets, microphone, digital projector, overhead projector, flip
        charts and pens, whiteboards, etc. Please note that certain A/V
        materials and equipment will be available for all workshops.
        Specialty items may require the minimum registrants for a
        workshop to be raised to cover additional costs. At the time of
        acceptance, more information about the standard vs. non-standard
        A/V equipment will be available. For hands-on workshops,
        indicate Laptop Recommended, Laptop Required, or Laptop Optional
        (see " Hands-on Lab-based Workshops " above) and which operating systems are
        supported (Linux, Mac, Windows, Android, iOS). Describe any special
        requirements for attendees' computers.
        
    -   **Space and Enrollment Restrictions**: Please tell us the
        maximum number of participants that you can accommodate. If no
        limit is specified, we will assume a cap of 30 participants. Be
        aware that, if interest is strong, we may seek to raise the
        limit to 40 or more. Also indicate any special restrictions on
        the configuration of the room (flip chart easels, clear floor
        space for robots, etc.).
        
    -   **Other Critical Information**: Other notes that will help to
        evaluate your proposal according to the evaluation criteria
        described above.

    Here are sample Full Workshop Proposals: 
    
    -   [Workshop Proposal Example
        (Word)]({{site.base}}/authors/examples/workshopProposalsample.doc)
        
    -   [Workshop Proposal Example
        (PDF)]({{site.base}}/authors/examples/workshopProposalsample.pdf)
        
        <span class="label label-danger">WARNING</span> The abstract/proposal lengths in these examples have not been updated to reflect the requirements for {{site.data.main.upper}} {{site.data.main.year}}. Please adhere to the stated page lengths/word limits, and not the current example lengths.

2.  **Workshop Proposal Abstract (Limited to {{site.data.cfp.details[plural].abstract}})**

    The abstract is the description of the workshop that will appear in
    SIGCSE publications and is what participants will read on the
    Symposium web site to decide which workshops to attend. This year we
    are asking that you include information about the intended audience
    and computing requirements **in the abstract** to help readers make
    that choice.

    The description is limited to {{site.data.cfp.details[plural].abstract}} and must match
    verbatim the abstract section of the Full Workshop Proposal.

    The workshop proposal abstract must be submitted in plain text. The
    abstract for an accepted proposal may contain a URL with more
    information for participants. (Abstracts of accepted workshops can
    be edited in response to reviews for the camera-ready submission.)


## How Do I Submit My Proposal?

Note that you will be required to submit your proposal electronically.

1. Write your proposal and abstract documents using the formats
    specified above.
    
2.  Convert the proposal document into Adobe PDF format. Refer to our
    [Creating Adobe PDF Documents page](creating_pdf.html) for
    assistance.
    
3.   A plain text version of your abstract and a PDF version of your 3-page workshop proposal should be uploaded using <a href="{{site.data.cfp.submissionurl}}">online submission system</a>. Note that the text version of the abstract will be published in the various forms of the program and proceedings, and may be formatted and/or edited to meet their requirements. The proposal, formatted in `.pdf`, is for reviewers only. Please do not wait until the last minute to submit your documents because that is when everyone else will be connecting to our server!
    
4.  Make note of the workshop ID number and password assigned to your
    submission. You will receive an e-mail message confirmation. Spam
    filters sometimes trap these automatically generated messages. You
    may need to check your spam trap for the confirmation and, later,
    for the acceptance or rejection notification.
    
5.  After receiving confirmation, go to the to review your submission
    for accuracy. Send e-mail to the Workshops coordinator(s)
    if there are any problems.

{% include presenter-warning.html %}


{% include submission-questions category="Workshops Co-Wrangler" %}