This workshop aspires to engage global post-secondary teachers interested in computing education with a reflection on computing education activities in Chinese universities. Participants will exchange ideas with Chinese professors and leaders of Microsoft Research Asia in discussing and synthesizing the variances in global computing education at universities.           

A key challenge for Chinese universities is implementing a sound structure and approach for its essential and core “CS1” computing course titled, Fundamentals of University Computer Science, a non-majors course commonly known as CS0. China understands the importance of exposing university students to computing and technology. It is vital for students to be fully up-to-date with technology and its effect on society.   China has made great strides in recent years in advancing computing knowledge at the university level. Chinese universities are currently evaluating the introduction of computational thinking into the “CS1” for non-majors course (CS0). Not only is computational thinking the mental skill for all college students to solve problems by computing, but it also can help them to understand nature, human society, and their subject analytically. Such an addition dramatically increases Chinese students’ deeper understanding and real-world application of computing and technology in the workplace.
The workshop will present the “CS1” non-majors course (CS0) along with two discussions that will aptly analyze ongoing ways to improve the course. Participants will have full opportunity to express their views in discussions and in presenting their own perspectives through breakout sessions. Chinese universities and Microsoft Research Asia are committed to advancing computing technology in China.

